---
title: 2021 Employee Experience Trends in B2B
date: 'March 1, 2021'
tags: []
draft: false
summary: '2021 Employee Experience Trends in B2B'
---

# 2021 Employee Experience Trends in B2B

The2021 Qualtrics EmployeeXMstudy has recently been released. Given this most extraordinary year, we encourage everyone to take a moment to look at the biggest trends affecting workplaces.  Themovement for social justice, a majorPresidential election,the passing of some of the world’s greatest figures, and aglobal pandemichave all created challenges for businesses to navigate as employees experience massive change and upheaval in their daily routines.  How can a business be prepared to handle these challenges and opportunities? The study breaks it down into three major parts.Employee Well Being:Without a doubt the largest driver of the employee experience lies in the well-being of employees, which is often derived form a “sense of belonging” at their workplace.  Leaders should regularly be asking their staff if they feel calm, energized, overwhelmed, and/or trusted amongst their colleagues.  Asking these questions in an anonymous format and on a regular basis could help unveil lingering issues, and potentially show if staff feel that they have a “sense of belonging” and “well-being”.Taking Action on Feedback:Equally critical to the employee experience is the company’s response mechanism when employees provide feedback.  Sending frequent and short surveys will help illuminate leaders to issues staff may be facing, especially when they are out of sight and potentially working remote.  However, this loop is not completed until a response, change, or action is taken on that feedback. It should come as no surprise that when a company takes action on feedback, the intent on staff to both stay and remain highly engaged, increases.  Too many companies do not even attempt to get feedback, but even worse is to solicit the feedback and then do nothing.Managerial Effectiveness:One theme that comes up over and over in employee experience surveys is the employees who feel they have managers that support them and have open communication with them tend to stay more engaged at work.  One big, long conversation with staff does very little to move the needle, and research shows that frequent, but shorter, conversations and feedback have much more power.  A good next step is for managers to turn their staff’s feedback into action and change.  These two simple strategies, good communication, and action after engagement can lead to highly productive staff.As we enter 2021, take a moment to draft out a simple survey you can send to your employees three to four times a year.  Empower managers to listen frequently and make change where necessary. Setting the foundation for a simple but meaningful and effective feedback loop will result in highly engaged and motivated staff.
