---
title: Clear Seas Research Releases 2021 Water Heater CLEAReport
date: 'April 11, 2022'
tags: []
draft: false
summary: 'Clear Seas Research Releases 2021 Water Heater CLEAReport'
---

# Clear Seas Research Releases 2021 Water Heater CLEAReport

Clear Seas Research is pleased to announce the latestWater Heater CLEAReportis now available for purchase. This report is designed to provide actionable insights; monitoring industry professionals’ most purchased tank and tankless water heater brands, standard installation practices, and reported market trends.ThisCLEAReportwas produced to help you understand the purchasing mindset of the water heater contractor, using in-depth analysis and trended data.  The Water Heater CLEAReport covers the questions that can otherwise be difficult to answer without syndicated research:•What are the most common purchase and installation practices?•Which brands are most recommended?•What brands do industry professionals use most?“We believe the water heater industry ought to be driven by high manufacturing standards and professional installation, not on market claims or misrepresentation from the competition.” Mitch Henderson, Owner & Co-CEO of BNP Media, said. “We wrote this report to serve as your trusted guide to what the purchasers of water heaters are saying behind closed doors with no salespeople around and when they feel the most confident to speak their true feelings.”This trended report includes surveys collected fromPlumbing & Mechanical, SNIPS, Plumbing & Mechanical Engineer, Supply House Times, andReeves Journalsubscribers, as well as myCLEARopinion panel members whose companies install, replace, or service tank and tankless water heaters.Please visit our website topurchase this report. If you have any questions, please reach out to our Clear Seas Research team atConnect@ClearSeasResearch.com.  All other syndicated research studies can be found athttps://clearseasresearch.com/reports/About Clear Seas ResearchClear Seas Research is a full-service market research organization run by experienced market research professionals. We focus on delivering research and panel solutions for clients that desire unbiased, strategic information surrounding brand positioning, new product development, customer experiences, and marketing effectiveness. Clear Seas Research currently supports leading companies' global quantitative and qualitative research needs in the construction, manufacturing, mechanical systems (hvac/plumbing), food & beverage processing/manufacturing, manufacturing, packaging, and security industries.
