---
title: The Most Important Media Formats When Learning about New B2B Products and Services
date: 'January 1, 2023'
tags: ['B2B', 'B2B brand', 'brand promotion', 'Brand Research', 'content marketing']
draft: false
summary: 'The Most Important Media Formats When Learning about New B2B Products and Services'
---

# The Most Important Media Formats When Learning about New B2B Products and Services

We are often asked what our market research says is the best way to promote a B2B brand. When it comes to marketing a B2B brand, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works for every organization. To successfully promote a B2B brand, companies must take a comprehensive look at their specific industry, target audience, and goals. Our latest IPCT Dashboard provides the most recent data on the preferred media format.You can view the data here and can utilize the dashboard to filter on your industry verticals:https://dashboard.clearseasresearch.com/IPCT?dashboardType=IPCT&title=mediaFormatImportance.First, one of the most effective ways to promote a B2B brand is through creating a Professional Continuing Education program. It is the best way to teach your industry professionals about new products or services. This type of learning is especially beneficial for those in professions requiring up-to-date knowledge, particularly pertinent in B2B. By participating in continuing education courses, professionals can stay informed about changes in their field and maintain their expertise.Asecondeffective way to promote a B2B brand is through in-person tradeshows and events. They are an excellent way for your expert prospects to get hands-on experience with new products or services. Professionals can gain a deeper understanding of how your product works and it gives them the opportunity to interact with you as a vendor; to ask questions and learn more about the available features. Additionally, these tradeshows allow professionals to network with peers in the same industry and form strong business relationships. The physical nature of these events means that participants have immediate access to experts in the field, allowing them to have their questions answered quickly and accurately. In addition, these events can allow you to provide interactive demonstrations for attendees to become familiar with your products and/or services. This will enable them to make a more informed decision on what best suits their needs.Many top B2B brands now combine their educational programs with their tradeshows. Brands will offer educational sessions where professionals can learn about trends in their field and discuss solutions for everyday challenges. This creates an environment for attendees to collaborate and share ideas, enabling them to build strong professional networks that can help benefit their careers in the long run. Furthermore, attending these events allows professionals to stay up-to-date with changes in their profession and further develop their expertise.Third, our research has shown that Google continues to be one of the top resources for professionals looking to stay up-to-date on the latest products and services available. One of the most effective ways to promote a B2B brand is through targeted content marketing. Content marketing involves creating custom content such as blog posts, articles, videos, podcasts, and webinars based on a company’s offerings. However, Google now offers a vast array of tools beyond just blogs for sophisticated marketers to use and make themselves more valuable to prospective customers.Google’s suite of educational tools is invaluable for professionals seeking to better understand new technologies. Users can access valuable educational content from these advanced platforms from Google’s library of open-source tools, such as TensorFlow and Colab. Also, through its innovative search algorithms, Google can quickly locate a brand's B2B Continuing Education tutorials and videos that dive deeply into a particular product or service.Furthermore, we've seen top brands use even more sophisticated Google products. For example, Google offers other helpful features, such as its ‘Google Scholar’ service, which enables users to search through millions of scholarly articles to find useful information related to any topic they may be interested in learning about. This helps professionals stay up-to-date on new developments within their field and gives them access to research materials that are often difficult to find outside of academia. By utilizing all these potent resources, Google can quickly become one of the best media formats for promoting new B2B products or services.There are many ways to promote your B2B brand, but we’ve found that these three methods are the most effective. First, continuing education allows professionals to learn about new products and services. Second, trade shows are a powerful driver of new customers and a way for B2B vendors to interact with possible new clients. Third, content marketing is a great way to reach potential customers through customized content such as blog posts, articles, videos, podcasts, and webinars. This content is critical for Google and is still one of the top resources for professionals looking for information on new technologies and products. By using all of these tools, you can increase awareness for your brand and drive more sales.
